= irs_forms

Generate IRS forms with your data

irs_forms makes it easy to generate forms with data placed in the correct locations. See these examples:
with template [PDF[https://github.com/ValencePM/irs_forms/blob/master/spec/assets/f1099msc1_data_and_template.pdf-0.12.0.pdf]],
without template [PDF[https://github.com/ValencePM/irs_forms/blob/master/spec/assets/copyA_with_data_and_no_template.pdf-0.12.0.pdf]].

== List of Supported Forms

* Form 1096
* Form 1099 (MSC)

== Annual form update

Each year, irs_forms should be updated to use the current year's IRS forms.
Follow these steps to update the PDFs:

```
cd prep
ruby prep.rb
mv ./outputs/* ../templates
```

Now the new PDFs have been generated and moved into place. The final step,
before committing, is to update the specs and manually review the new PDFs.

To update the specs, open `spec/spec_helper` and change the method signature of
`#write_content_to_file` so that `force_write` defaults to `true`. Now run the
specs with `rspec`. This will update the spec assets.

Review the PDFs in `spec/assets` for correctness, paying special attention to
the correct placement of text. One of the items that changes most years is the
placement of the boxes on the 1096 forms.

After making any required changes, run the specs one more time, revert
`force_write`, and commit/push the changes.

== Contributing to irs_forms

* Check out the latest master to make sure the feature hasn't been implemented or the bug hasn't been fixed yet.
* Check out the issue tracker to make sure someone already hasn't requested it and/or contributed it.
* Fork the project.
* Start a feature/bugfix branch.
* Commit and push until you are happy with your contribution.
* Make sure to add tests for it. This is important so I don't break it in a future version unintentionally.
* Please try not to mess with the Rakefile, version, or history. If you want to have your own version, or is otherwise necessary, that is fine, but please isolate to its own commit so I can cherry-pick around it.

== Copyright

Copyright (c) 2013 Ryan Winograd. See LICENSE.txt for
further details.
